A welcome back and this video in the next couple we're going to take a look at what we can put here
in the some condition is true portion of the if for elf statement.
So what are the things that we can test for.
So they have to return true or false.
But so far we've only seen testing for direct equality is name equal exactly to Arya Stark but we'll
see a couple other options in this video called comparison operators so comparison operators allow us
to compare two pieces of data.
And we've already seen one example the equality operator which is two equal signs remember one equal
sign will actually assign a variable.
So we don't want to be doing that inside an if.
So we want to equal signs and that will be truthy it will return true if A is equal to be if they have
the same value.
And this little table I made you can put one in for a and one for B.
So one equals one.
That's true.
So over here in my terminal I could do something like inside a price on three I could do you know one
equals equals one.
And we get true I could do one equals equals two.
And that's false.
And you know same thing for strings is a equal to capital A.
That's false.
They're different.
Remember capitalization matters.
Typically we would use variables.
We're not going to just have an if statement if one is equal to one.
Do this.
You might as well just say if true or always do this.
OK.
So back to our comparison operators.
The next one that goes along with equality is not equals.
So it's an exclamation point and a single equal sign.
So this returns true if A is not equal to be so in this case one is not equal to one is false.
So it returns false.
So we can test that out just do you know one not equals one.
We get false or let's make variable as time called color set it equal to Teale and then we can test
if color is not equal to purple.
But will this return true.
Because Teale is not equal to purple.
So everything I'm showing you right now you could easily put into an IF or ever.
But just for the sake of keeping this brief I'm just typing them immediately and getting true or false.
Next are greater than and less than.
So you've probably seen these before but the idea is that one value is greater than the other.
If a is greater than be greater then returns true if it's not returns false and the opposite is true
for less than.
So in this case both examples are actually false because if we put one for a and one for B one is not
greater than 1 1 it's not less than 1.
It's exactly equal to 1.
So we could try this.
We'll start with numbers so we can do things like you know it's one less than three that should return
TRUE is negative 100.
Greater than negative 200.
That's true.
This is more negative it's smaller.
The other thing that we could do is work with strings and I advise you not to do this comparing strings
with greater than the most and it does work.
Right.
So we could say is lower case a less than upper case a.
And that's false or we could do is lower case upper case a less than lower case AA.
And that's true.
And what about a B is a B less than if they are greater than let's do greater than it's true.
The reason they advise you not to do this is just that it can get confusing when you have to worry about
case.
And honestly there's not many times when you're trying to figure out if a letter comes before another
letter or an entire string comes before another string.
It is possible the way Python orders them is called lexicographical ordering.
It's essentially alphabetical ordering.
Sort of like what the dictionary would use but we don't need to go into it that much.
Just be aware that you can test for greater than and less than with strings but almost ninety nine percent
of the time you're only going to care about direct equality or we'll find ways to figure out is the
first letter of a string equal to something.
But we'll leave that for now and move on to the last two which are greater than or equal to and less
than or equal to.
So in this case start with greater than or equal to the whole thing returns true if A is greater than
or equal to be.
So the whole thing for us returns true if one is greater than or equal to 1.
And that's true because one is equal to one and the opposite applies for less than or equal to.
So we could do a simple example.
Age equals 18 and then age is greater than or equal to 18.
We'll say that you're an adult and that's true.
And we could use this in an IF just doing if age is greater than or equal to 18 then we'll do a print.
You are an adult at least in the US.
I don't know about other countries hit enter again and we get you are an adult because age is equal
to 18.
So if we left off an equal sign just add greater than you don't get anything because age is not greater
than 18 equal to 18.
All right.
So those are comparison operators.
There's a couple of them as we've seen most of the time.
Well a lot of the time you're working with equals and not equals greater than less then greater than
equal to less than or equal to are also common.
But at the end of the day all of them return either true or false.
Every time they run and we can plug them directly in like a little Lego block we put them in the if
statement or in the Elif and they return true or false.
And the gatekeepers for which branch of the code runs.